# ianatzformatInfo

This program is written in the [Go Programming Language](https://golang.org/), a.k.a. ***golang***.  The application executable is, ***ianatzformatInfo.exe***.

The objective of this application is to create types and data structures for use in _**Go**_ programs.  Time Zone information for these data structures is parsed, formatted and extracted from raw IANA Time Zone files.

The source code file generated by this application allows developers to quickly access time zones using pseudo enumeration syntax illustrated by the following examples.

```go

TZones.America.Chicago()   // America/Chicago USA Central Time Zone

TZones.America.New_York()  // America/New_York USA Eastern Time Zone

TZones.America.Denver()    // America/Denver USA Mountain

Time Zone TZones.America.Los_Angeles() // America/Los_Angeles USA Pacific Time Zone

TZones.America.Argentina().Buenos_Aires() // America/Argentina/Buenos_Aires Time Zone
```



## Table of Contents

+ [IANA Time Zones](#iana-time-zones)
+ [Go Relies on the IANA Time Zone Database](#go-relies-on-the-iana-time-zone-database)
	- [LoadLocation](#loadlocation)
	- [Updating Time Zone Data For Your Go Installation](#updating-time-zone-data-for-your-go-installation)
	- [Time Package References](#time-package-references)
+ [Application Processing](#application-processing)
+ [Base Input Data](#base-input-data)
	- [Input File Example](#input-file-example)
		+ [Line 1](#line-1)
		+ [Line 2](#line-2)
		+ [Configuration](#configuration)
+ [Create Source IANA Time Zone Information](#create-source-iana-time-zone-information)
	- [Step-1 Identify the Desired IANA Time Zone Data Version](#step-1-identify-the-desired-iana-time-zone-data-version)
		+ [a. Access the IANA Time Zone Website](#a-access-the-iana-time-zone-website)
		+ [b. Record the Target Time Zone Version Number](#b-record-the-target-time-zone-version-number)
	- [Step-2 Create the Time Zone Data Directory](#step-2-create-the-time-zone-data-directory)
	- [Step-3 Navigate to Time Zone Data Directory](#step-3-navigate-to-time-zone-data-directory)
	- [Step-4 Create the Time Zone Version Directory](#step-4-create-the-time-zone-version-directory)
	- [Step-5 Execute Bash Commands](#step-5-execute-bash-commands)
		+ [Execute Bash Command \#1 - Set Environment to Exit on Error](#execute-bash-command-\1---set-environment-to-exit-on-error)
		+ [Execute Bash Command \#2 - Download Time Zone Data Tar Archive](#execute-bash-command-\2---download-time-zone-data-tar-archive)
		+ [Execute Bash Command \#3 - Unzip Time Zone Data Tar Archive](#execute-bash-command-\3---unzip-time-zone-data-tar-archive)
		+ [Execute Bash Command # 4 - Verify Time Zone Data Extraction](#execute-bash-command--4---verify-time-zone-data-extraction)
	- [Step-6 Include Time Zone Version Directory in targettzdata.txt](#step-6-include-time-zone-version-directory-in-targettzdatatxt)
+ [Application Output](#application-output)
+ [Output Go Source File: timezonedata.go](#output-go-source-file-timezonedatago)
+ [Questions And Comments](#questions-and-comments)


### IANA Time Zones

The IANA Time Zone database is widely recognized as the the world's leading authority on time zones.

Reference:

​    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones>

​    <https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Tz_database>

​    <https://www.iana.org/time-zones>

The **Go** Programming Language uses IANA Time Zones in date-time calculations.

Reference:
	https://golang.org/pkg/time/#LoadLocation

This application assumes that Time Zone data has been downloaded

Current IANA Time Zone data base information is located at:
     <https://www.iana.org/time-zones>

For a listing of all time zone database releases, reference:

​     <https://data.iana.org/time-zones/releases/>



### Go Relies on the IANA Time Zone Database

The ***Go Programming Language*** uses IANA Time Zones in date-time calculations. The following was taken form the [Go Time Package](https://golang.org/pkg/time/) documentation for ***LoadLocation***.

#### LoadLocation

Reference:  <https://golang.org/pkg/time/#LoadLocation>

func ***LoadLocation***(***name*** string) (***Location***, error)

***LoadLocation*** returns the Location with the given name.

If the ***name*** is "" or “UTC”, LoadLocation returns [**UTC**](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Coordinated_Universal_Time).

If the ***name*** is "Local", ***LoadLocation*** returns the location, ***Local***. (***Local*** represents the system's local time zone.)

Otherwise, the ***name*** is taken to be a location name corresponding to a file in the [IANA Time Zone database](https://www.iana.org/time-zones), such as "America/New\_York".

The time zone database needed by ***LoadLocation*** may not be present on all systems, especially non-Unix systems. ***LoadLocation*** looks in the directory or uncompressed zip file named by the ***ZONEINFO*** environment variable, if any, then looks in known installation locations on Unix systems, and finally looks in ***$GOROOT/lib/time/zoneinfo.zip***.



#### Updating Time Zone Data For Your Go Installation

Although not part of the ***ianatzformatInfo.exe*** application, you should be aware that the ***Go Programming Language*** allows end users to update the Time Zone Database used in ***Go*** date/time calculations. For more information on the time zone update procedure, see [***TimeZoneDatabaseUpdates.md***](xtechnotes/TimeZoneDatabaseUpdates.md) .



#### Time Package References

The following reference articles provide information on time zones and the ***Go*** Time Package:



> [**Go Time Package**](https://golang.org/pkg/time/)

> [**Detect if ZONEINFO fails in Go - Stack Overflow**](https://stackoverflow.com/questions/51053321/detect-if-zoneinfo-fails-in-go)

>  [**Package time - Mastering Go**](https://code-examples.net/en/docs/go/time/index)

> [**knozone**](https://github.com/slotheroo/knozone)



## Application Processing

Using the ***ianatzformatInfo.exe*** application, information is extracted from raw IANA Time Zone source files and reformatted as a series of  types and data structures stored in a source file suitable for use in a ***Go*** program.  This source code file generated by the application is named, [***timezonedata.go***](./app/output/timezonedata.go).

The raw IANA Time Zone source files must be downloaded by the end user and stored in a directory which is accessible to ***ianatzformatInfo.exe***.



## Base Input Data

In order to function properly, this application expects to find the text file [***targettzdata.txt***](./app/input/targettzdata.txt) in a sub-directory labeled *input* which is located directly beneath the directory which houses this application executable (***ianatzformatInfo.exe***).  This text file contains the path to the IANA Time Zone data and the path in which the output source code file (***timezonedata.go***) will be created.

#### Input File Example
Assume application executable, *ianatzformatInfo.exe*, is located in **D:\myAppDir** .

Input File [***targettzdata.txt***](./app/input/targettzdata.txt) MUST BE located in a directory named ***input*** which is a sub-directory underneath the application directory:

        'D:\myAppDir\input\targettzdata.txt'

[***targettzdata.txt***](./app/input/targettzdata.txt) is a text file containing two lines of information on the first two lines in the text file.

Each line of text must be terminated with a new line character, **\n**.

##### Line 1

The first line designates the 'path' to the IANA time zone source data files. The application will search this path for valid IANA time zone database files and these files will be used as application input.

##### Line 2

The second line designates the path to the output file.

The application will create the output file [***timezonedata.go***](./app/output/timezonedata.go)  in this output directory.  This ***Go*** source file will contain data structures used to access world wide time zones.

##### Configuration
Configure these two lines in accordance with the following example:

    InputDirectory: D:\tz\data\2019c
    OutputDirectory: D:\GoProjects\ianatzformatInfo\app\output

The leading field names, **InputDirectory:** and **OutputDirectory:** are mandatory.  Each must be followed by a colon (**:**)  and a space.  Also, remember that each line must be terminated by a new line character, **\n** .



## Create Source IANA Time Zone Information

The application ***ianatzformatInfo.exe*** expects to find raw IANA Time Zone data files in the output directory (***OutputDirectory:***) field of the [***targettzdata.txt***](./app/input/targettzdata.txt) file described above. The following steps outline the procedure for downloading IANA Time Zone data files to a local directory on your computer.

### Step-1 Identify the Desired IANA Time Zone Data Version

#### a. Access the IANA Time Zone Website

You have two choices.  If you seek the latest version of time zone data, point your browser at:

​		[**https://www.iana.org/time-zones**](https://www.iana.org/time-zones)

On the other hand, if you are targeting an earlier version of time zone data, point your browser at the release history web site:

​		 [**https://data.iana.org/time-zones/releases/**](https://data.iana.org/time-zones/releases/)



#### b. Record the Target Time Zone Version Number

 Make a note of the desired time zone version. Time zone version numbers are expressed as a 4-digit year followed by a character.  Example: **2019c**.  This version number **2019c** will be used in all the following examples.  Be sure to substitute your version number for **2019c** in the examples below.



### Step-2 Create the Time Zone Data Directory

1. Open a Terminal Window. On Windows, this involves opening a [Cygwin](https://www.cygwin.com/) terminal window or a terminal emulator configured for Cygwin, such as [ConEmu](https://conemu.github.io/).

2. Create a new, empty scratch directory which can be used to stroe time zone data.  Example: ***D:\\tz\\data***.  This is the time zone data directory where time zone information will be downloaded for use by the application,  ***ianatzformatInfo.exe*** .

   The following is a Windows Cygwin example. Make the necessary modifications for your platform.

   ​			`cd /cygdrive/d   `

   ​				**OR**

   ​			`  cd d:`



   ​			`mkdir -p tz/data`

​		These commands will result in the creation of a new time zone data directory, ***D:\tz\data***.



### Step-3 Navigate to Time Zone Data Directory

1. Open a Terminal Window. On Windows, this involves opening a [Cygwin](https://www.cygwin.com/) terminal window or a terminal emulator configured for Cygwin, such as [ConEmu](https://conemu.github.io/).

2. Change directories to the time zone data directory created in ***Step-2***, above. Using the example in ***Step-2***, this means that you will make ***D:\tz\data*** the current directory.

   ​		`cd /cygdrive/d   `

   ​				**OR**

   ​		`  cd d:`



   ​		`cd ./tz/data`



   To verify the current working directory, execute the command **pwd** in the terminal window. This will list the current working directory which should be ***D:\\tz\\data***.



### Step-4 Create the Time Zone Version Directory

In the terminal window, the current working directory should be **D:\tz\data**. You must be in that directory in order to execute the following command which will create the version directory.  The command example uses **2019c** as the version directory name.  Be sure to substitute the Time Zone version you selected in **Step-1, a** above for **2019c**.

​			`mkdir ./2019c`

To verify creation of the time zone version directory, issue the command, **ls**.  This will list the contents of the  ***D:\tz\data*** directory and verify the existence of the new version directory, **2019c**.

Your current working directory should still be ***D:\tz\data***. To verify the current working directory,  execute the command **pwd** in the terminal window. This will list the current working directory which should be ***D:\\tz\\data***.



### Step-5 Execute Bash Commands

The following bash commands will download the time zone data and store it in your Time Zone version directory, ***D:\tz\data\2019c*** .

You must be in the time zone data directory (**D:\\tz\\data**) when issuing these commands.



#### Execute Bash Command \#1 - Set Environment to Exit on Error

​						`set -e`

This sets the environment such that scripts will exit on error.



#### Execute Bash Command \#2 - Download Time Zone Data Tar Archive

In the following ***curl*** command, replace the text phrase **2019c** in the command syntax below with the target time zone version identified in **Step-1, b** above.  This command will download the specified time zone data as a tar archive (a.k.a. tarball).

​	`curl -L -O https://www.iana.org/time-zones/repository/releases/tzdata2019c.tar.gz`

This **curl** command must be executed on one line from the **data** directory (**D:\\tz\\data**). To verify download of the correct file after the download operation, execute the “**ls -lh**” bash command to list the contents of the **data** directory **(D:\\tz\\data)** and verify the existence of the correct tar archive of file, ***tzdata2019c.tar.gz***. Again, be sure to substitute the time zone version number identified in  **Step-1, b** above for **2019c** in the tar archive name.



#### Execute Bash Command \#3 - Unzip Time Zone Data Tar Archive

Replace the text phrase **2019c** in the command syntax below with the time zone version number selected in **Step-1, b** above. This command will unzip the file downloaded with **Bash Command \# 2**, above. Be sure to execute this command from the time zone data  directory, ***D:\tz\data***.

​    						`tar xzf tzdata2019c.tar.gz -C ./2019c`



#### Execute Bash Command # 4 - Verify Time Zone Data Extraction

Change directory to the time zone version directory, ***D:\tz\data\2019c***.  Of course, you will need to replace the text **2019c** with the time zone version number selected in ***Step-1, b***, above.  When executing the bash command shown below, the current working directory should be the time zone data directory ***D:\tz\data***.

​							`cd ./2019c`

​							`ls -lh`

The ***ls -lh*** command will list the contents of the time zone version directory, ***D:\tz\data\2019c***. This listing should show 30+ files including the file named, ***northamerica*** (no file extension).

To verify that these data files represent the time zone version you selected in ***Step-1, b***, above, use a text editor to open the file ***D:\tz\data\2019c\version*** (File version has no file extension). The only text included in this file is the time zone version number. For this example that would be, **2019c**.



### Step-6 Include Time Zone Version Directory in targettzdata.txt

After successfully executing the bash commands listed in Step-5, above, the configuration of raw time zone data required by application ***ianatzformatInfo.exe*** is now complete.  However, ***ianatzformatInfo.exe*** to access an utilize this time zone information, you must include the time zone version directory in the application's input file [***targettzdata.txt***](./app/input/targettzdata.txt).

The section entitled ***Base Input Data*** shown above specifies that the time zone version directory should be configured on line # 1 of the [***targettzdata.txt***](./app/input/targettzdata.txt).

​					`InputDirectory: D:\tz\data\2019c`

As a requirement, the data field name, **InputDirectory**, must be followed by a colon (**:**) and a space.  In addition, this line of text must be terminated by a new line character, ***\n***.



## Application Output

The IANA time zone database contains text files which represents raw data on world wide time zones. This application, ***ianatzformatInfo.exe***, is designed to parse and format time zone information and generate a ***Go*** source file containing a series of types defining world time zones.

#### Output Go Source File: timezonedata.go
The output ***Go*** source file, [**timezonedata.go**](./app/output/timezonedata.go), is created in the output directory specified on line #2 of input file, [**targettzdata.txt**](./app/input/targettzdata.txt) .

​			`OutputDirectory: D:\GoProjects\ianatzformatInfo\app\output`

Note that line #2 as illustrated above, must be terminated with a new line character, **\n**.

Using the line #2 example, the output source file, [**timezonedata.go**](./app/output/timezonedata.go), would be created as  ***D:\GoProjects\ianatzformatInfo\app\output\timezonedata.go*** .



## Questions And Comments

Direct questions concerning this application to:

    mike.go@paladinacs.net



